Add support for CyberX-v10 flight controller (STM32H743IIK6 Main MCU + STM32F103 IOMCU) (#33089)
ArduPilot/ardupilot: libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/CyberX-v10/README.md

# CyberX-v10 Flight Controller

This firmware is compatible with CyberX-v10.

![CyberX-v10 Board](CyberX-v10_right.png)

## Features

* Separate flight control core design.
* MCU
  STM32H743IIK6 32-bit processor running at 400MHz
  2MB Flash
  1MB RAM
* IO MCU
  STM32F103 at 72MHz 128KB Flash 20kB SRAM
* Sensors
* IMU:
  Internal Vibration Isolation for IMUs,
  IMU constant temperature heating(1 W heating power).
  With Triple Synced IMUs, BalancedGyro technology, low noise and more shock-resistant:
  IMU1-BMI088(With vibration isolation),
  IMU2-ICM42688-P(With vibration isolation),
  IMU3-ICM20689(No vibration isolation)
* Baro:
  Two barometers:Baro1-BMP581, Baro2-ICP20100
* Magnetometer:
  A builtin IST8310 magnetometer

## Pinout

![CyberX-v10 Board](CyberX-v10_left.png)
As shown in the figure above,the interfaces from left to right:
![CyberX-v10 Board]( CyberX-v10_Interfaces.png)
The specific pinout is as follows:
![CyberX-v10 Board]( CyberX-v10_Pinout.png)

## UART Mapping

The UARTs are marked Rn and Tn in the above pinouts. The Rn pin is the receive pin for UARTn. The Tn pin is the transmit pin for UARTn.

> |Name|Function|MCU PINS|DMA|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name|Label/Protocol|UART|DMA|
```

|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|

> |SERIAL0|OTG1|USB|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|SERIAL0|USB, MAVLink2|OTG||
```
likewise on other table entries

|SERIAL1|Telem1|USART2|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL2|Telem2|USART3|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL3|GPS1|USART1|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL4|GPS2|UART4|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL5|DEBUG|UART5|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL6|RCIN|UART8|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL7|RESERVE|UART7|DMA Enabled|
|SERIAL8|OTG-SLCAN|USB|

The TELEM1 and TELEM2 ports have RTS/CTS pins, the other UARTs do not have RTS/CTS.

## RC Input

> The RCIN pin, which by default is mapped to a timer input, can be used for all ArduPilot supported receiver protocols, except CRSF/ELRS and SRXL2 which require a true UART connection. However, FPort, when connected in this manner, will only provide RC without telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RCIN pin, which by default is mapped to a timer input, can be used for all ArduPilot supported unidirectional receiver protocols. Bi-Directiona protocols, such as  CRSF/ELRS and SRXL2, require a true UART connection. However, FPort, connected to RCIN, can provide RC without telemetry.
```

> To allow CRSF and embedded telemetry available in Fport, CRSF, and SRXL2 receivers, a full UART, such as SERIAL6 (UART8) would need to be used for receiver connections. Below are setups using Serial6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow CRSF and embedded telemetry available in Fport, CRSF, and SRXL2 receivers, a full UART, such as SERIAL6 (UART8) would need to be used for receiver connections. Below are setups using Serial6, which is already set up by default for bi-directional RC input.
```

> * [SERIAL6_PROTOCOL](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html#serial6-protocol-serial6-protocol-selection)  should be set to "23".

Reviewer: remove...you have set it as default already

> * CRSF would require  [SERIAL6_OPTIONS](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html#serial6-options-serial6-options)  set to "0".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CRSF would require `SERIAL6_OPTION`  set to "0".
```

> * SRXL2 would require [SERIAL6_OPTIONS](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html#serial6-options-serial6-options) set to "4". And only connect the TX pin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SRXL2 would require `SERIAL6_OPTIONS` set to "4". And only connect the TX pin.
```

* The SBUS_IN pin is internally tied to the RCIN pin of RCIN port.

Any UART can also be used for RC system connections in ArduPilot and is compatible with all protocols except PPM.
See [Radio Control Systems](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/common-rc-systems.html) for details.

## PWM Output

The CyberX flight controller supports up to 16 PWM outputs.
First 8 outputs (labelled 1 to 8) are controlled by a dedicated STM32F103 IO controller.
The remaining 8 outputs (labelled 9 to 16) are the "auxiliary" outputs. These are directly attached to the STM32H743 FMU controller.
All 16 outputs support normal PWM output formats. All 16 outputs support DShot, except 15 and 16.

The 8 IO PWM outputs are in 3 groups:

* Outputs 1 and 2 in group1
* Outputs 3 and 4 in group2
* Outputs 5, 6, 7 and 8 in group3

The 8 FMU PWM outputs are in 3 groups:

> * Outputs 1, 2, 3 and 4 in group1

Reviewer: label them as 9-16 or M9-M16 if that is what is on the case....same with the IOMCU outputs above...be consistent

* Outputs 5 and 6 in group2
* Outputs 7 and 8 in group3

Channels within the same group need to use the same output rate. If any channel in a group uses DShot then all channels in the group need to use DShot.

## GPIO

All PWM outputs can be used as GPIOs (relays, camera, RPM etc). To use them you need to set the output’s SERVOx_FUNCTION to -1. The numbering of the GPIOs for PIN variables in ArduPilot is:

* M1 101
* M2 102
* M3 103
* M4 104
* M5 105
* M6 106
* M7 107
* M8 108
* M9  50
* M10 51
* M11 52
* M12 53
* M13 54
* M14 55
* M15 56
* M16 57

## CAN

The CyberX has two independent CAN buses.

## Battery Monitoring

> Two power monitor interfaces have been configured,including one analog monitoring and one I2C monitoring.

Reviewer: you need to state that POWER1 is analog and POWER2 is I2C....and list the analog monitors defaults

These are set by default in the firmware and shouldn't need to be adjusted.

## Compass

The CyberX flight controllers have an integrated IST8310 high-precision magnetometer.

> In addition to the built-in IST8310 compass, the board also supports an external IST8310 connected to any I2C bus (address 0x0E).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, users will need to disable the internal compass and use an external compass, appropriated located, to avoid electrical interference
```

> ## Analog inputs

Reviewer: I dont see the analog inputs pinned out....and those would not be the AP pin aliases for them, I dont think

is RSSI an analog pin? AP pin 103 alias is already an IOMCU output

Reviewer: sorry forgot this is an IOMCU analog pin and analog pin aliases dont conflict with digital pin aliases

# CyberX-v10 Flight Controller

This firmware is compatible with CyberX-v10.

![CyberX-v10 Board](CyberX-v10_right.png)

## Features

* Separate flight control core design.
* MCU
  STM32H743IIK6 32-bit processor running at 400MHz
  2MB Flash
  1MB RAM
* IO MCU
  STM32F103 at 72MHz 128KB Flash 20kB SRAM
* Sensors
* IMU:
  Internal Vibration Isolation for IMUs,
  IMU constant temperature heating(1 W heating power).
  With Triple Synced IMUs, BalancedGyro technology, low noise and more shock-resistant:
  IMU1-BMI088(With vibration isolation),
  IMU2-ICM42688-P(With vibration isolation),
  IMU3-ICM20689(No vibration isolation)
* Baro:
  Two barometers:Baro1-BMP581, Baro2-ICP20100
* Magnetometer:
  A builtin IST8310 magnetometer

## Pinout

![CyberX-v10 Board](CyberX-v10_left.png)

![CyberX-v10 Board]( CyberX-v10_pinout.jpg)

## UART Mapping

> The UARTs are marked Rn and Tn in the above pinouts. The Rn pin is the receive pin for UARTn. The Tn pin is the transmit pin for UARTn.

Reviewer: but...they are not labeled this way in image, and really should be

First 8 outputs (labelled 1 to 8) are controlled by a dedicated STM32F103 IO controller.
The remaining 8 outputs (labelled 9 to 16) are the "auxiliary" outputs. These are directly attached to the STM32H743 FMU controller.
All 16 outputs support normal PWM output formats. All 16 outputs support DShot, except 15 and 16.

The 8 IO PWM outputs are in 3 groups:

* Outputs 1 and 2 in group1
* Outputs 3 and 4 in group2
* Outputs 5, 6, 7 and 8 in group3

The 8 FMU PWM outputs are in 3 groups:

* Outputs 9, 10, 11 and 12 in group1
* Outputs 13 and 14 in group2
* Outputs 15 and 16 in group3

Channels within the same group need to use the same output rate. If any channel in a group uses DShot then all channels in the group need to use DShot.

## GPIO

All PWM outputs can be used as GPIOs (relays, camera, RPM etc). To use them you need to set the output’s SERVOx_FUNCTION to -1. The numbering of the GPIOs for PIN variables in ArduPilot is:

* M1 101
* M2 102
* M3 103
* M4 104
* M5 105
* M6 106
* M7 107
* M8 108
* M9  50
* M10 51
* M11 52
* M12 53
* M13 54
* M14 55
* M15 56
* M16 57

## CAN

The CyberX has two independent CAN buses.

## Battery Monitoring

> Two power monitor interfaces have been configured,including one analog monitoring of the PWR1 prot and one I2C monitoring(with INA2xx) of the PWR2 port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two power monitor interfaces have been configured:  one analog ( PWR1) and one I2C( INA2xx) , PWR2 port.
```

The PWR1 default battery parameters are:

* BATT_MONITOR_DEFAULT=4
* BATT_VOLT_PIN=16
* BATT_CURR_PIN=18
* BATT_VOLT_SCALE=15.5

> * BATT_CURR_SCALE=50

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BATT_AMP_PERVLT=50
```
